# CRD-crime-record-database-
# Problem Statement:
A number of criminal cases, accidents get reported in the police station. Create a database of such records which will give a heat map of the type of crime and frequency of the crime in selected region by statistical analysis. This will help the common citizen(in recognizing and being aware of the crime/accident prone areas) , transport ministry(to address the traffic and road maintenance/development issues),police (to maintain law and order in crime prone areas).
Database for crime records which stores information related to reported crimes. Information involves Case no.(unique for each case), Reported by(Name of the person) , Crime Description, Category of crime ( Vehicle Accident, Lost person, Theft , Murder , Smuggling , uncategorized ), Date of Crime, Date of registration, Time of incident, Time of registration, Location( Area, landmark, village/town/city , Taluka , District, State , Country , PIN code ), Suspects , Victims.
Case No. would be unique and generated automatically. Reported by(Name of the person) can be null , if the person wants to be anonymous. Crime description contains text field data not more than 200 words. Category of crime is must, if uncategorized then null. Date of registration must not precede the date of crime in any condition. Similarly, time of registration must not precede the time of incident.  
If the crime is of the category Vehicle accident, additional information would be stored such as Number of vehicles involved, No of people involved, Vehicle description, Vehicle no. Whether or not insurance is valid, if plausible insurance details. According to the number of vehicles involved , those many input fields of Vehicle description and Vehicle nos. 
If the crime is of the category Lost Person , additional information would be Name, Age , Photo, Gender, Skin complexion, Body mark/Special identity, Probable reasons. Report must be entered after 24 hours of missing of the person if above 18, else report it immediately. 
If the crime is of category is Theft, additional information would be Things/Cash stolen, Criminal appearance.
If the crime category is Murder , additional information would be murdered victim, murder weapon, Condition of dead body, Things found at murder site.
If the crime category is Smuggling , additional information would be Material smuggled, Organizations.
 A criminal has a crime record , and information about criminal (Criminal ID(unique for each criminal), Prison Status, Case no. , Gender, Name, Age, Photo ).
Criminal ID will be unique to recognize the criminal . Prison status of the criminal would be either imprisoned or not imprisoned. Case No. of the crime record to which criminal is associated with, one criminal could be involved in multiple crimes therefore multiple Case No. Similarly , a case record could have multiple criminals. 

# Abstract:
The need for good record-keeping and information sharing practices has taken on added significance in today’s global environment. Not only do good records provide crucial internal information (case management support),law enforcement agencies now need to communicate agency-to-agency and across continents in order to protect the Nations citizen. Nothing is more important to accomplishing that mission than having accessibility to accurate and timely records. Calls for service records and investigative, arrest , criminal identification, detention, and even civil records hold information that by themselves mean little, however ,when pieced together with information from other jurisdictions , the result can help with all levels of investigations and aid in safeguarding the Nation.
The project is aimed to develop a crime record file to maintain computerized records of all the cases filed against crime and cases filed against criminals. Provide the investigating officers of the civil police with tools, technology and information to facilitate investigation of crime and detection of criminals. Improve police functioning in various other areas such as law and order, traffic management etc. Facilitate interaction and sharing of information among police departments, districts, state and other police agencies. Reduce manual and redundant records keeping.
Crime record database system is a system used to report crimes. This project is mainly useful for police departments. This system will help to manage all the activities in a police department using computers. Currently all the works are done manually, by computerizing all the activities inside a police department can be managed easily and effectively.
The police department in the country are today virtually unconnected islands, there is no system of data storage , data sharing and accessing data. There is no system under which one police department can talk to another directly. There is no record of crimes or criminals that can be accessed by the department house officer except the manual records relating to that police department. The goals of the system are to facilitate collection, storage, retrieval, analysis, transfer and sharing of data and information at the police department and between the department, state headquarters and central police organizations.

